docs(astro): Add endpoint reference (#1251)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/astro/endpoints.mdx

---
title: Endpoints

> description: Learn how to use Clerk with your Endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use Clerk in Astro endpoints.
```

---

# Endpoints

> Clerk provides helpers that allow you to protect your [Endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes), fetch the current user, and interact with the Clerk backend API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clerk provides helpers that allow you to protect your [Astro endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/endpoints/#server-endpoints-api-routes), fetch the current user, and interact with the Clerk backend API.
```

}
```

## Retrieve the current user

In some cases, you might need the current user in your Endpoint. Clerk provides an asynchronous local called [`currentUser()`](/docs/references/nextjs/current-user) to retrieve the current [`Backend User`](/docs/references/backend/types/backend-user) object.

```ts filename="src/pages/api/route.ts"
export async function GET({ locals }) {
  const user = await locals.currentUser();

  if(!user){
    return new Response("Unauthorized", { status: 401 });
  }

  return new Response(JSON.stringify({ user }));
}
```

## Interact with Clerk's Backend API

The [JavaScript Backend SDK](/docs/references/backend/overview) exposes [Clerk's backend API](https://clerk.com/docs/reference/backend-api) resources and low-level authentication utilities for JavaScript environments.

`clerkClient` exposes an instance of the JavaScript Backend SDK for use in server environments.

```ts filename="src/pages/api/route.ts"
import { clerkClient } from '@clerk/astro/server';

export async function POST(context) {
  const { userId } = context.locals.auth();

  if(!userId){
    return new Response("Unauthorized", { status: 401 });
  }

>   const params = { firstName: 'John', lastName: 'Wick' };

Reviewer: Unless we use this already, I consider this
```suggestion
  const params = { firstName: 'Clerk', lastName: 'Cookie' };
```

Author: We use this name in Nextjs example if I remember correctly but approving your suggestion since it sounds more professional :D
